# Accessibility Guidelines

## PREAMBLE
According the [Strategy 2017](http://www.ilias.de/docu/goto_docu_file_5585_download.html)
ILIAS aims to to be "Usable for Everyone" including users with special needs.
ILIAS is to be perceivable, operable, understandable and of robust use for all users.
ILIAS enables users to locate, identify, access, and operate objects and services provided. 
These guidelines outline functional accessibility requirements as set out by EN 301 549. V2.1.2 of August 2018. 
EN 301 549 reflects WCAG 2.1 Recommendation Level A and AA. 
These guidelines reference both documents. 
Because ILIAS is rendered in a browser it is categorised as a ‘web page’ by EN 301 549. This is not how it feels to us. 

CAVEAT: ILIAS purpose however is to facilitate learning which typically involves content. This content is categorised either as ‘non-web document’ or as ‘web page’. The content is generated by users and beyond the control of ILIAS and not covered by these guidelines. Editors and forms allowing users to generate content are to encourage producing accessible output if possible.

## FUNCTIONAL PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS
Reference: EN 301 549 > 4.2.1 - 
HTML-Content rendered by ILIAS shall conform to EN 301 549 / WCAG 2.1 Recommendation Level A and AA. 
1.	Controls provide at least on mode of operation that does not require vision. 
2.	Visual modes of operation provide features enabling users to make better use of their limited vision. 
3.	No mode of operation relies exclusively on the perception of colour, there is at least one additional method of distinction. 
4.	If there ever was an auditory mode of operation, there must be at least one mode of operation that does not require hearing. 
5.	If there ever was a vocal mode of operation, there must be at least one mode that can be operated without vocal output. 
6.	Controls that require manual action provide at least on mode of operation that does not require manipulation or hand strength. 
7.	[Reach does not apply]
8.	No control has the potential for triggering photosensitive seizures. 
9.	We will try to accommodate users with limited cognitive, language or learning abilities. 
10.	ILIAS can be operated with assistive technology without compromising the privacy of a user. 

## Principle 1: Perceivable
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 1 / EN 301 549 > 9.1
Information and user interface components must be presentable to users in ways they can perceive.

### Guideline Text Alternatives
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 1.1 / EN 301 549 > 9.1.1
Provide text alternatives for any non-text content so that it can be changed into other
  forms people need, such as large print, braille, speech, symbols or simpler language.
#### Success Criterion Non-text Content
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 1.1.1 Level A / EN 301 549 > 9.1.1.1
All non-text content that is presented to the user has a text
alternative that serves the equivalent purpose, except for the situations listed below:

  - **Controls, Input**: If non-text content is a control or accepts user input, then it
  has a name that describes its purpose.

  - **Time-Based Media**: If non-text content is time-based media, then text alternatives
  at least provide descriptive identification of the non-text content.

  - **Test**: If non-text content is a test or exercise that would be invalid if presented in text, then text alternatives at least provide descriptive identification of the non-text content.
  

  - **Sensory**: If non-text content is primarily intended to create a specific sensory experience, then text alternatives at least provide descriptive identification of the non-text content.

  - **CAPTCHA**: If the purpose of non-text content is to confirm that content is being
  accessed by a person rather than a computer, then text alternatives that identify and
  describe the purpose of the non-text content are provided, and alternative forms of
  CAPTCHA using output modes for different types of sensory perception are provided to
  accommodate different disabilities.

  - **Decoration, Formatting, Invisible**: If non-text content is pure decoration, is used
  only for visual formatting, or is not presented to users, then it is implemented in a
  way that it can be ignored by assistive technology. 

### Guideline Time-based Media
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 1.2 / EN 301 549 > 9.1.2
Provide alternatives for time-based media.

#### Success Criterion Audio-only and Video-only (Prerecorded)
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 1.2.1 Level A / EN 301 549 > 9.1.2.1
An alternative for time-based media or audio description of the prerecorded video content is provided for synchronized media, except when the media is a media alternative for text and is clearly labeled as such.

 - **Prerecorded Audio-only**: An alternative for time-based media is provided that presents equivalent information for prerecorded audio-only content.
 - **Prerecorded Video-only**: Either an alternative for time-based media or an audio track is provided that presents equivalent information for prerecorded video-only content.

#### Success Criterion Captions (Prerecorded)
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 1.2.2 Level A / EN 301 549 > 9.1.2.2 
Captions are provided for all prerecorded audio content in synchronized media, except when the media is a media alternative for text and is clearly labeled as such.

#### Success Criterion Audio Description or Media Alternative (Prerecorded)
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 1.2.3 Level A  / EN 301 549 > 9.1.2.3
An alternative for time-based media or audio description of the prerecorded video content is provided for synchronized media, except when the media is a media alternative for text and is clearly labeled as such.

#### Success Criterion Captions (Live)
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 1.2.4 Level AA  / EN 301 549 > 9.1.2.4
Captions are provided for all live audio content in synchronized media.

#### Success Criterion Audio Description (Prerecorded)
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 1.2.5 Level AA / EN 301 549 > 9.1.2.5
Audio description is provided for all prerecorded video content in synchronized media.

#### Guideline Adaptable
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 1.3 / EN 301 549 > 9.1.3
Create content that can be presented in different ways (for example simpler layout)
without losing information or structure.

#### Success Criterion Info and Relationships
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 1.3.1 Level A / EN 301 549 > 9.1.3.1
Information, structure, and relationships conveyed through presentation can be programmatically determined or are available in text.

#### Success Criterion Meaningful Sequence
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 1.3.1 Level A / EN 301 549 > 9.1.3.1
When the sequence in which content is presented affects its meaning, a correct reading sequence can be programmatically determined.

#### Success Criterion Sensory Characteristics
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 1.3.3 Level A / EN 301 549 > 9.1.3.3
Instructions provided for understanding and operating content do not rely solely on sensory characteristics of components such as shape, size, visual location, orientation, or sound.

#### Success Criterion Criterion Orientation
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 1.3.4 Level AA / EN 301 549 > 9.1.3.4
Content does not restrict its view and operation to a single display orientation, such as portrait or landscape, unless a specific display orientation is essential.

#### Success Criterion Identify Input Purpose
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 1.3.5 Level AA / EN 301 549 > 9.1.3.5
The purpose of each input field collecting information about the user can be programmatically determined when:

- The input field serves a purpose identified in the Input Purposes for User Interface Components section; and
- The content is implemented using technologies with support for identifying the expected meaning for form input data.

### Guideline 1.4 Distinguishable
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 1.4 / EN 301 549 > 9.1.4
Make it easier for users to see and hear content including separating foreground from background.

#### Success Criterion Use of Color
Reference: WCAG 2.1 > 1.4.1 Level A / EN 301 549 > 9.1.4.1
Color is not used as the only visual means of conveying information, indicating an action, prompting a response, or distinguishing a visual element.

#### Success Criterion Audio Control
If any audio on a Web page plays automatically for more than 3 seconds, either a mechanism is available to pause or stop the audio, or a mechanism is available to control audio volume independently from the overall system volume level.

#### Success Criterion Contrast Minimum

### Principle 2: Operable
User interface components and navigation must be operable.

#### Guideline 2.1 Keyboard Accessible
Make all functionality available from a keyboard.

- **Keyboard**: All functionality of the content is operable through a keyboard interface
without requiring specific timings for individual keystrokes, except where the
underlying function requires input that depends on the path of the user's movement and
not just the endpoints. This exception relates to the underlying function, not the
input technique. For example, if using handwriting to enter text, the input technique
(handwriting) requires path-dependent input but the underlying function (text input)
does not.  This does not forbid and should not discourage providing mouse input or
other input methods in addition to keyboard operation.

- **No Keyboard Trap**: If keyboard focus can be moved to a component of the page using a
keyboard interface, then focus can be moved away from that component using only a
keyboard interface, and, if it requires more than unmodified arrow or tab keys or other
standard exit methods, the user is advised of the method for moving focus away. Note:
Since any content that does not meet this success criterion can interfere with a
user's ability to use the whole page, all content on the Web page (whether it is used
to meet other success criteria or not) must meet this success criterion.


#### Guideline 2.2 Enough Time
Provide users enough time to read and use content.

- **Timing Adjustable**: For each time limit that is set by the content, **at least one** of the following is true:

  - **Turn off**: The user is allowed to turn off the time limit before encountering it; or

  - **Adjust**: The user is allowed to adjust the time limit before encountering it over a
  wide range that is at least ten times the length of the default setting; or

  - **Extend**: The user is warned before time expires and given at least 20 seconds to
  extend the time limit with a simple action (for example, "press the space bar"), and
  the user is allowed to extend the time limit at least ten times; or

  - **Real-time Exception**: The time limit is a required part of a real-time event (for
  example, an auction), and no alternative to the time limit is possible; or

  - **Essential Exception**: The time limit is essential and extending it would invalidate
  the activity; or

  - **20 Hour Exception**: The time limit is longer than 20 hours.

- **Pause, Stop, Hide**: For moving, blinking, scrolling, or auto-updating information,
**all of the following** are true:

  - **Moving, blinking, scrolling**: For any moving, blinking or scrolling information that
   (1) starts automatically, (2) lasts more than five seconds, and (3) is presented in
   parallel with other content, there is a mechanism for the user to pause, stop, or
   hide it unless the movement, blinking, or scrolling is part of an activity where it
   is essential; and

  - **Auto-updating**: For any auto-updating information that (1) starts automatically and
  (2) is presented in parallel with other content, there is a mechanism for the user to
   pause, stop, or hide it or to control the frequency of the update unless the
   auto-updating is part of an activity where it is essential.

#### Guideline 2.3 Seizures
Do not design content in a way that is known to cause seizures.

- **Three Flashes or Below Threshold**: Web pages do not contain anything that flashes more
  than three times in any one second period, or the flash is below the general flash
  and red flash thresholds.

#### Guideline 2.4 Navigable
Provide ways to help users navigate, find content, and determine where they are.

- **Bypass Blocks**: A mechanism is available to bypass blocks of content that are repeated
  on multiple Web pages.

- **Page Titled**: Web pages have titles that describe topic or purpose.

- **Focus Order**: If a Web page can be navigated sequentially and the navigation sequences
 affect meaning or operation, focusable components receive focus in an order that
 preserves meaning and operability.

- **Link Purpose (In Context)**: The purpose of each link can be determined from the link
text alone or from the link text together with its programmatically determined link
context, except where the purpose of the link would be ambiguous to users in general.

### Principle 3: Understandable
Information and the operation of user interface must be understandable.

#### Guideline 3.1 Readable
Make text content readable and understandable.

- **Language of Page**: The default human language of each Web page can be programmatically determined.

#### Guideline 3.2 Predictable
Make Web pages appear and operate in predictable ways.

- **On Focus**: When any component receives focus, it does not initiate a change of context.

- **On Input**: Changing the setting of any user interface component does not automatically
 cause a change of context unless the user has been advised of the behavior before
 using the component.

#### Guideline 3.3 Input Assistance
Help users avoid and correct mistakes.

- **Error Identification**: If an input error is automatically detected, the item that is
in error is identified and the error is described to the user in text.

- **Labels or Instructions**: Labels or instructions are provided when content requires user input.


### Principle 4: Robust
Content must be robust enough that it can be interpreted reliably by a wide variety of
user agents, including assistive technologies.

#### Guideline 4.1 Compatible
Maximize compatibility with current and future user agents, including assistive technologies.

- **Parsing**: In content implemented using markup languages, elements have complete start
and end tags, elements are nested according to their specifications, elements do not
contain duplicate attributes, and any IDs are unique, except where the specifications
allow these features. Start and end tags that are missing a critical character in their
 formation, such as a closing angle bracket or a mismatched attribute value quotation mark are not complete.

- **Name, Role, Value**: For all user interface components (including but not limited to:
form elements, links and components generated by scripts), the name and role can be
programmatically determined; states, properties, and values that can be set by the user
can be programmatically set; and notification of changes to these items is available
to user agents, including assistive technologies. This success criterion is primarily
for Web authors who develop or script their own user interface components. For
example, standard HTML controls already meet this success criterion when used according
to specification.

